---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# BlueFletch

SYNQ supports [BlueFletch](https://bluefletch.com/) Messaging as a communication platform provider.
This means that all staff-facing notifications generated by SYNQ will be delivered to configurable BlueFletch channels.

To configure SYNQ to use BlueFletch for your store location you need to:
1. Configure your BlueFletch-enabled devices to support Messaging.
2. Determine the BlueFletch channels that represent groups of workers that should receive notifications.
3. Configure SYNQ to be aware of your BlueFletch channels.
4. Configure SYNQ apps and devices to send their notifications to your BlueFletch channels.

## Requirements

### BlueFletch Apps 
Ensure your BlueFletch-enabled devices include the following BlueFletch applications:
- BlueFletch Messaging
- BlueFletch Browser
- BlueFletch Device ID
- BlueFletch EPM
- BlueFletch Support (optional)

### BlueFletch Launcher 
Ensure your BlueFletch Launcher configuration includes the following:
- `"enableNotifications": true,`
- `"subscribeToIdentityGroups": true`

### Provide the following to SYNQ
- Your BlueFletch Organization ID (from BlueFletch EMS)
- Your BlueFletch API Key (from BlueFletch EMS)
- Your BlueFletch Site IDs (you can export a `sitelist.csv` from BlueFletch EMS)
- Device IDs or Enterprise group names that the BlueFletch Messaging app subscribes to


## Location/Store Configuration
Each location/store must be configured with its own BlueFletch messaging configuration.

To configure BlueFletch Messaging:
1. Sign into __MyStore__ as a Location Administrator
1. Select __Location Config__
1. Scroll down to __Notification Method__
1. Select __BlueFletch__
1. Click __Update Location Settings__

## Microsoft Entra ID
For the best user experience we recommend signing into both your BlueFletch-enabled devices and SYNQ using Microsoft Entra ID accounts.

Refer to __Setup Guide for Azure AD using MSAL__ of the BlueFletch Entra Single Sign-On guide.

Your BlueFletch Launcher configuration JSON should contain an `auth_msal` element similar to the following:
```
"auth_msal": {
    "client_id": "b449584a-b3ab-4cf4-9a9a-97072d6b4016",
    "redirect_uri": "msauth://com.bluefletch.ems.auth/OAyqFMKAKsAwHLBIlMGxaZcdyen%3D",
    "authority_type": "AAD",
    "authorization_user_agent": "BROWSER",
    "broker_redirect_uri_registered": false,
    "shared_device_mode_supported": false,
    "scopes": "openid email profile User.Read GroupMember.Read.All",
    "default_group": "Associates",
    "authority_url": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/d9085f8e-7efc-4dd4-9e93-007d82c52a7e",
    "audience_tenant_id": "d9085f8e-7efc-4dd4-9e93-007d82c52a7e"
}
```